---
layout: post
title: Visit to Indian Linux User Group, Chennai
tag: LUGC
---

![Indian Linux User Group Chennai]({{site.url}}/assets/images/ilugc.jpg)

Lately I was travelling to [Chennai](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Chennai)
for some personal work. I was very clear on meeting [Mr. Shakthi
Kannan](http://shakthimaan.com/). While travelling to Chennai I dropped a mail
inquiring about his availability. He replied with an invitation to attend the
Meetup of [Indian Linux Users Group,
Chennai](https://www.meetup.com/ILUG-C/events/234086665/) scheduled at IIT
Madras. I happily accepted the invitation and decided to attend the Meetup.

The Meetup was happening in the Aero Space Engineering department, IIT Madras.
The campus is quite huge in the area.  It took 15 minute bus journey to get to
the department. Because I was late, I missed the initial talk on Emacs Org mode
by Shakthi. I was lucky enough to attend lightning talk section. When I entered
one young boy was demonstrating
[BeFF](http://tools.kali.org/exploitation-tools/beef-xss). I was not mindful
about this tool before his talk. After his words I realized BeFF is a
penetration testing tool and now I am confident for switching to its
documentation and start going through it. His talk ended with little discussion
on doubts. Nearly one hour was still remaining Shakthi came forward and invited
interested people to confront. That sure rang a bell! I was not sure about
attending Meetup and presenting something instantly was looking tough. Mohan
moved forward and demonstrated How memory mapping works in GNU/Linux system.
During his talk I quickly skimmed on a list of topics I was aware about and I
decided to speak on [JSON Web
Token](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/JSON_Web_Token). I initiated with little
description about myself. Then demonstrated ways to generate a secure token.
Discussed about architecture a bit and gave few guidelines, points to remember.
I ended my talk with comparing [Oauth 2.0](https://oauth.net/2/) with JWT. Few
interested people asked questions and I was lucky enough to solve their
confusions.

I realized it is good to have small and interested audience than having large
and unfocused. This group has nice experienced people in the GNU/Linux domain.
If Chennai is your town, I will promote you to join this group and get
involved.
